Hi guys and welcome back.
In this video, we're going to talk about lists.
Lists allow us to store multiple values
in a single variable.
For example, imagine you've got a programme
that contains the names of your friends,
you could start off with something like this.
But of course, you can imagine that as your programme grows,
this becomes less and less feasible,
you have to keep adding variables and not only that,
but working with these variables
becomes increasingly difficult.
For example, if you wanted to print out
who your friends are, you would have to say,
you know, print(friend1)
and then you have to print (friend2) and then three.
And if you add more,
you would have to add more print statements.
And that means that as your code grows,
it grows more and more and more exponentially.
And that means that this code is not going
to be very easy to work with.
It's much better, if we create a list.
(keyboard typing)
Like this.
Now we've got a single variable, friends
and that name describes very well what it contains,
which is the names of our friends.
To create a list, we use square brackets
and inside the list, we put the different values
separated by commas.
So what we've got here, is a list of three strings.
The first one is Rolf, the second one is Bob
and the third is Anne.
If we want to access the value of a single friend,
you would do friends and then using square brackets again,
you would put zero for example.
And what this does,
is it accesses the first element of the list.
Notice that in computing, we start counting at zero
so element zero is the first element,
element one is the second element and so on.
So if we run this, you'll see that Rolf gets printed out
because that's the first element there.
Similarly, if we print friends[1],
you'll see Bob printed out.
Notice that you can put anything you want inside a list,
so you could put two in there if you wanted to
but this is highly discouraged.
Generally, you want to keep data inside a list, homogeneous.
And what this means is, you wanna keep it all related
and all the same.
For example, here if you've got a list called friends,
you probably wanna keep your friends in that list.
If you have a list called furniture,
you would wanna keep strings describing the furniture
in that list.
If you see something like this out there in some code
that you read somewhere else,
it probably means that the programme in question,
started writing some code about furniture
and then decided to write about friends instead.
And generally, when you do this,
you want to make sure that your variables do change.
While you can do this, is generally discouraged,
because the data inside the list is no longer described
by the variable name and so this can be a bit confusing.
If you see a variable called friends,
what's the two?
Does that mean you have two friends?
Is it something else?
Maybe one of your friends is called two.
So, keep the data inside your list's homogeneous
and that's gonna make your life much easier
as you programme more.
Of course if you did want to get the amount of elements
in the list, say two, you don't have to put the two
inside the list.
You can just print the len of friends.
So if you do len, and then inside the brackets,
you put the list, this is gonna give you the length
of the list or the size of it.
So if we run this, you'll get two out
because that's the number of elements in this list,
Rolf and Anne.
You can put anything you want inside a list,
so it doesn't have to be strings or numbers,
you can put other lists if you want.
For example, let's create a list of friends and their ages.
So here, this outer list,
denoted by these square brackets outside
of every other element, has three lists inside it.
This one, that one and this one.
Each of those lists has two elements inside it.
Those two in this list, Bob and 30 in this list
and Anne and 27 in the final list.
If you wanted to access a specific element,
for example, Rolf, all you have to do
is access the first element of the outer list
and that is friends[0]
and then the first element of the inner list.
So when you do friends[0], what you're getting back
is this list here.
What happens in Python, is that this is replaced
essentially by this list.
So now if you wanna access the first element of this list,
you just put another zero inside square brackets at the end.
So this here is this list and all of this is Rolf.
Similarly, if you wanted to access Bob's age,
for example, you could do friends[1][1].
When you have a long list, such as this one,
is usually good form to split it out into multiple lines
like this, the square brackets in their own lines.
And then, with some spacing in front,
although it is not required, but it is generally used,
you can put each of the sub lists in there.
Indeed if it's a list of strings, say,
you can also put each string in their own line
just so it's a bit easier to read.
This clearly shows that you've got a long list
and this is each element in the list
and you can see that comma separated at the end.
Now pay close attention when you are writing lists
that you have the commas in the right place.
Here, we've got a comma inside this inner list,
which means its got two elements.
And then we've got a comma afterwards,
which separates this element from other elements
in the outer list, just something to pay close attention to.
Let's go back to our friends list with just strings
and look at how to add to one of these.
To add to a list, all you have to do is
type the list name dot append and what that's gonna do
is going to add a name or indeed add anything
to the list at the end.
That's what append means.
So if we print friends now,
you'll see that we've got four elements
inside the friends list.
Similarly you can remove from a list if you want
by doing friends.remove and then say Bob.
Now if we print this, you'll see that
there is only got two elements, Rolf and Anne.
Something to remember is that,
if you have a list of lists, for example
and you want to remove one of the sub lists,
you've gonna say friends.remove
and then everything you want to remove
so that's Anne, say 27.
And what this means is, you're going to remove
from the friends list, which is all of this,
the value of this list,
so this entire list is gonna go away.
If you just do Anne, Python is gonna say,
Anne doesn't exist in this list, because this list contains
three things, this, that and that
and Anne is not one of those things.
What is one of those things, though, is this entire list,
and with 27 in it.
So, if we print friends now,
you'll see that entirely disappears
and you're left with just the two other lists
inside your friends list.
Hopefully this makes sense.
Lists are a very useful data structure
and they're everywhere in Python
and you're gonna be using them a lot
throughout your programming.
If you're not sure when you would want to use a list
versus a string, don't worry too much about it,
over the coming videos, we're going to be getting
more experience with using lists
as well as some other data structures
that will be looking at and you'll learn more about when
and how to use them.
So with that said, I'll see you in the next video.